All right, welcome to this checky
webinar where we will talk about modern
uh end to- end testing with playright
and AI. And let me just quickly kick off
my timer here. Let's go. I'm Stefan. I
work here checkly in the developer
relations team which means that I'm
responsible for uh creating videos
creating blog posts helping developers
to be successful with synthetic
monitoring with playright with API
monitoring all the good stuff to
guarantee that the stuff that you ship
in production that it's running
perfectly fine and smooth so that the
customers are happy and if it is not
running fine that you are the first one
to know about what is going on and what
you should fix in a timely manner.
Before we get started, uh thank you all
for participating in telling me where
you're tuning in from. Yes, you will
receive the prompts and resources in an
email later, most likely tomorrow
because it's fairly late in Germany, but
we will uh prepare all that stuff
tomorrow then. And yeah, please ask
questions in chat. Um there's the Q&A
window. There's also the webinar uh chat
that you already um put some messages
in. I'm trying trying to read along and
also during the webinar it could be that
we're waiting for some LLM responses um
which could lead could lead to some
awkward situations. So if I have
something to answer in the meantime that
would be very helpful and yeah let's
maybe have a little bit of conversation
here. So what we're going to do in this
hour is we will talk about the elephant
in the room right and it is hard to
ignore at this point but AI is there
right? LLMs are there. Everybody's
talking about that. Uh, Blue Sky,
Twitter, LinkedIn, everybody's just
figuring it out. What does it mean for
us? Am I in danger? Should I use it?
Shouldn't I use it? Will it help me? And
these are all very hard questions to
answer, right? And right now there are
multiple camps. So, for example, we have
here Dario Amodi who is the CEO of
anthropic who said in March this year in
3 to six months AI is writing 90% of the
source code. This is basically today,
right? I'm not sure if AI is writing 90%
of your source code, but well, that was
an ambitious goal, I would say. And then
we had also people like Sam Alman from
OpenAI who said that AI will make coders
10x more productive and it will not nec
necessarily replace us. I think that is
that is a good take. I I can live with
that. Right? Uh whatever camp you belong
to, L&Ms are here to stay though, right?
The technology is there. We all have to
figure out now how we can use it when we
should use it and when it's maybe a
little bit risky um to bet on LLMs and
the main question of this webinar will
be what does that mean for us or for you
writing playright and tend tests right
and we at Czechly so you hear in the
Czechly webinar are heavily invested in
the playright ecosystem because checkley
is a developer platform that helps you
to um faster detect communicate and
resolve issues with your applications um
uh that are running in production,
right? And we heavily bet on Playright.
And if you're already using Playright,
you probably know the drill that you
develop your application or your end to
end tests locally. And if you're then
done, you probably just push it or run
it in GitHub actions or on any other
CI/CD provider when you have MRS, PRs,
and when you want to land your changes
in production, right? And this is great
for preparing you to get your changes
in. But with Czechly, we believe in the
approach that you should take your
existing playright codebase and you
should run it from around the globe all
the time and you should use it for
monitoring so that you are the first one
to know when something is broken and
receive timely alerts so that you have
something to fix, right? Because when
your play rate and tests fail, that
means that there's something going on
that is most likely userfacing. And by
using or reusing play rate for synthetic
monitoring, you can uh be on the safe
side and quickly save before anyone else
notice. If you haven't used Czechly,
this is our dashboard. And here you see
a playright check suite that is uh
running tests from multiple locations.
And if this now feels familiar, we
really reuse or we try to be inspired by
what the playright test results look
like. and you have all the good stuff
right in your fingertips when there's
something failing in production, right?
So you can also run your playright test
suites on demand um which uh can speed
up your CI/CD pipelines or you don't
have to hassle with configuring your
play rate at all because with check it's
pretty um low configuration but we might
look at that in uh into that a little
bit later but we are here today to talk
about AI right we want to talk with our
code bases and we want to talk with LLMs
to generate create refactor and do some
things with our playright code. So, let
me show you what we're dealing with. So,
first of all, here we have my player
playright workshop uh shop, which is a
next.js application. Right now, we are
here on localhost 3000. So, I have that
running locally. And this is a normal
e-commerce application that pretty much
does everything that you would expect it
to do. So, you can add products to the
cart when this button is enabled. You
can delete products, you can search, you
can login. All this good stuff works
here in this application. And we will
create a player test suite here right
now with AI to see um how far we get and
where play where I AI shines and where
it maybe is not so good. I also have
this application running here deployed.
So here we have it on PD PWT workshop
storage for cell.app. We might use that
later um when we want to enable
synthetic monitoring.
And here we have the codebase that is
running this application. So here we go.
This is again I said a standard Nex.js
application. Everything is there. I'm
using GitHub Copilot with Cloud Sonnet
in this example. And um this is what we
will be working off. There are already
some tests included in the project. So
Playright is already initialized here.
Um I wrote them by hand you know um the
good old way. Um and we will maybe look
at them also a little bit later. So when
we now um check my GitHub copilot setup
here, I also have some MCP servers
installed. And if you haven't used MCP,
so model context protocol to enrich your
chat conversations. I will briefly cover
what it means to use MCP, how you can um
use it in your things. And I hope that
the concept of MCP will be a little bit
clearer after all. Uh after we talked
about that, right now you don't have to
worry about it. And when we now go into
our chit chat window to create and
update our player test suite, you will
see me doing something like this. So
whenever this bubble appears here, you
will uh I will record uh my my words and
then I will paste it in so that you
don't see myself typing all the time.
This speeds up the whole process a
little bit and I kept can keep having a
conversation with the chat uh so this
chat the co-pilot chat and maybe also
with you too. So let's kick things off
first. So what I see a lot of people
doing regardless if they're using playrs
or anything else, I see that a lot of
people are using LLMs as a Google
replacement or as a stack overflow
replacement. And this can actually be
fairly risky because um LLMs have a
cutoff date, right? So when we now would
ask our friend Claude or GitHub copilot
here, hey, what's your knowledge cutoff
date?
it will tell us that the knowledge that
is included in this uh LLM in this model
is actually from April 2024. And when
you now consider playright, playright
has new releases every couple of weeks
maybe months. If you want to use your
LLM to kind of get information about how
you do things in play, right, you are by
default if you're not using something
else or enrich your conversation, you're
by default running maybe on outdated
information, right? So this is something
that you have to keep in mind when you
use LLMs for this getting knowledge um
process. So what you can do here in
Corissa chat you can pull in some
documentation if you want to. Um in our
case here um GitHub copilot doesn't
provide that. I'm using a lot of times a
tool that is called context 7 and as you
see it here already um this is upto-ate
documentation for LLMs and AI code
editors. And what they basically do is
they provide the documentation
um that you want to use. So for the tool
that you want to use in this case
playrate they will constantly crawl it
so that you can pull it in to your
conversations. So if we now would go
with something like hey what's
playright's auto waiting about. We could
ask a question about um uh play rate in
this case and we can specify that we
here want to use the context 7 MCP
server. And what happens now is that
when we kick off this conversation is
that it will understand okay it tries to
figure out now the documentation for the
library that we want to use in this case
it's playright and then it will enrich
this conversation with a documentation
which is a real playright docs so that
then the LM only has to wrangle um the
information that it already received in
this case from context 7 to get accurate
information and answer the questions
that we might have right and this here
now is explaining to us what autoating
is it explains the actionability steps.
Um, if you don't know where these are,
for example, when you want to click a
button, playright usually checks if the
button is enabled, if it's visible, if
it's not moving. Um, but we can now
ensure or we can be more certain that
this information is more accurate
because it's based on our based on real
documentation and not maybe outdated
information that is included in the
model. So, this is just a little tip. um
rely don't rely on um the cutoff date or
the the information that is included in
the model because it might be outdated
and it's not giving you the best
answers. Then I'm [snorts] also clearing
my context window here all the time to
keep the conversation lean and don't
overwhelm the LLM. But let's do some
real work. And over the last couple of
months, I I kind of established a
pattern of creating files that I will
feed back into my LLM conversations. And
when I write playright scripts, I'm
usually on both ends of the development
life cycle. So usually I'm somehow
involved in building the feature and
then I'm also in charge of uh writing
the end to end tests. And when you have
access to the code base that is powering
the things that you want to test end to
end with playright, that is actually a
huge advantage because this is where LLM
shine. So let me just show you an
example.
Hey, I'm new to this project and I want
to create end to end test with
playright. Can you please summarize
possible pages and API routes and where
they are defined? Don't share more
information. Please write the result to
setup.md.
So here we go. So what I'm now setting
up is pretty much just I'm telling
GitHub copilot, so cloud sonnet in this
case to just give me a baseline of what
we're dealing with. This is pretty much
similar to what you do when you use
cloud code to kind of u create a cloud
and d file that analyzes the application
so that the LLM has something to work
off. And in this um example, I'm kind of
after um some files so that we can then
generate a testing plan and kind of
figure out what we should test maybe
what we want to test where the logic is
hidden so that we have different um test
cases.
the ARM the tool is called super whisper
and it is free actually. So and what
we're doing here is we're providing
context that we will feed back into our
future LLM conversations so that the LLM
isn't starting to kind of walk around
and grab and kind of figuring out what
is going on on itself. So what we see
now is that it parses the project. So
nextjs what we have is we have here the
app directory and here we have certain
pages and routes and
uh yeah it's make only and there we have
an API um around which is all the API
endpoints. So when we want to use play
rate for API testing we can just
reference our setup file and then the
test generation if we want to do it has
a head start to move forward a little
bit quicker and we're not burning so
many tokens. So let's see what we have
here. I will just wait for this button
to come in. So it is keep.
All right. So what do we have here? I
want to keep this. Let me accept that.
Here we go. So what we now have here is
a setup MD again. And you can name it
however you want to. But here we have we
have the main pages or main routes. So
we have home, login, search. We have
dynamic pages. Uh layouts. I don't care
about too much. So I will remove them
for now. And then we have API routes
that we will also test with playright a
little bit later. And then cloud code
tends to be a little bit noisy. All that
stuff here I don't really care about.
But when you then have this context, we
can bring this in and we can start doing
fancy stuff with playright and playright
MCP. So if you haven't heard of
playright MCP, let me just quickly show
you the project. So we're here on
GitHub, Microsoft Playright MCP. And
what this basically allows us is that we
can take our LLM conversation and we can
instruct and control playright from
within our conversation. So the
installation is usually very
straightforward but let me show you how
this works. So we could now kick off a
new conversation and we could say hey
can you navigate to checkleyhq.com
please?
c checkhq.com
please. So this looks good and now we
will inspect for a second what is
actually going on. So it figured out
that it should use player MCP and here
we have a so-called tool to tool call.
So the LLM conversation reaches into the
LLM server and provides some stuff
right. So and what happens is that we
call the MCP server which is controlling
Chrome here on my local machine and then
it provides us some output and it tells
us what code it executed. Right? So we
have here some source code that we can
reuse. It shares some console messages.
It tells us the page URL, the page title
and here this part is important. When
you use player MCP, it will also inline
a page snapshot. This is the
accessibility tree of the current page.
These are all the elements that are
included in the page as we just loaded
it and they are now included in our
conversation so that we can reuse it and
lens are pretty good at wrangling code
and text, right? So that is pretty
pretty nice. But the cool thing here is
now really we can could go on and we
could now say can you click login please
and we can start controlling and messing
around with Chrome right from within our
LLM. Right. So and I think this is kind
of magical. Um there are a lot of people
playing around with this figuring out
what this could be useful for. But when
all this information again enters um the
LLM conversation websites are actually
consumable by LLMs. That is actually
very very very cool. So it now gives us
some information about the website. But
I don't care about that too much. But if
you haven't played with player red MCP,
it is pretty pretty cool because now it
allows us to do things like this. So
check this out. When we now clear the
conversation, we can go ahead and we can
say, "Hey, can you navigate to localhost
3000 using Playright MCP and scan the
homepage and core functionality? Please
create an end to-end testing plan with
Playright. Don't write any code yet. I
just want to have an idea what I could
test. Use the information in setup in D.
Write the test plan to test plan MD and
include three actionable test scenarios
including search. Don't include any
additional information.
Here we go. So let's just check scan the
homepage. Please create the that looks
good. Use the information. Now we
reference the file that we have already
written so that um it will not start
poking around in the codebase. um write
a test plan to
test plan.mmd include three. So this
looks good. So what now happens is that
we basically instruct our LLM to open up
localhost 3000 and just poke around,
right? Just discover what functionality
could be in there and then figure out
what we should maybe test or what we
shouldn't test, right? And then we're
writing that to disk to feed it then
back again. Remember when I told you
that I started adopting the the idea of
kind of writing temporary files and
feeding them back in? This is kind of a
beautiful approach to have all this
context that might be valuable in your
in your testing flow or in your
application to disk to then feed it
back. And that actually works super
super nice and let's see what we come up
with. So we now are already on the setup
of creating a test plan MD. So let's see
what I've got here. So we have here now
a new test plan. So let's see, let me
remove that one here. And this looks
already a little bit like specdriven
development, right? A lot of people um
playing around with AI and figuring out
best practices are kind of preaching
that specs are now the new thing that we
we're after, right? And this is pretty
much what we want to define. when you
want to instruct your LLM to do things,
you have to be very very explicit
because that is something that I kind of
um had wrong assumptions initially,
right? We cannot just throw one question
or one sentence over to an LLM and
expect it to read my mind, right? That's
not going to work. But with this, we can
use the LLM to create a spec for us and
then feed it back. So let's see what we
have here. So let me accept what we have
here in our test plan. So we have here
product search and navigation. So this
looks good. Verify search functionality
returns relevant results and proper
navigation. All right. Navigate to
slash. This looks good. Enter liquid.
This looks good. We want to check that
we end here. This is good. Showing one
result. Good. Click on product to
navigate the product detail page.
Confirm that we are there. Verify. So
this is actually pretty pretty good. I'm
going to take that as is.
So let me just move on then. And if we
now have this specification of what we
want to do, what you usually would do is
you would go here, right? And you would
say npx playright
codegen and then you would perform these
actions u manually. Right? So this test
case is very quickly done right. So when
we're here um for the people that
haven't seen this, this is the playright
inspector window. And what now happens
is that I can perform actions here in
the chrome window, but it will
everything will be recorded here. So I
can now go into this little box here and
I can say liquid. I can hit enter. I can
say hey I want this element here to be
visible. Then I will click here and then
I want to click here. And here we have
our readyto use playright test. Right?
This is play rate codegen that is
supported for ages and usually this
gives you a very very good head start.
Um but we're here to talk about a AI
usage. Right? So let's see how and if we
can manage to do that via AI. So, I'm
going to um clear the conversation first
and I want to um talk about a quick myth
that I see all the time um when I read
blog posts and even documentation
sometimes. So, when it comes to player
test generation with AI,
it is not just using AI. So every now
and then I read blog posts that have
prompts or examples included that
instruct people to just go write a
playright test using test and expect in
JavaScript. Set a viewport open this
click sign enter email do this and this
and this. This cannot and will not work
because chbpt claude and friends all
these uh not coding agents don't have
access to the websites itself right they
cannot know what they're uh dealing with
and this is why whenever you read this
it's kind of no this cannot work and I
tested that out plenty of times because
in this approach when you just ask the
LLM to do that it will hallucinate its
way forward and make things up so that
you at the end um will uh end up fixing
a lot of things that are just made up.
Um the recording will be available. The
code repository is currently um private
and I don't think there's a lot of value
in sharing the code repository, but you
will have everything that you need in
the email that comes in tomorrow.
>> [snorts]
>> So with that out of the way, we cannot
now just go into our little chat window
and tell uh that we want to um generate
a playright test. But we can now tie
everything together with playright MCP
to provide all this context, all the DOM
structures, all the information that it
needs to know to start creating tests
with AI. So let me show you how this
could work. So, let's kick off this
prompt with here's a playright test case
scenario. And you now see how this is
all tying together, right? Because we
just generated a place player test case
scenario and we have it here, right? So,
let's just bring this in and paste it.
And now we're going to extend this
prompt to actually enable the play rate
test generation. And this is where we
need to do a little bit of prompt or
context engineering. So check this out.
We can now say, "Hey, can you execute
the test plan using player MCP?" Once
you're done, please generate a player
test case in tests/einar/
search spec. Yes. The test case should
include the test case scenario on top as
comments.
test webinar close player test case and
test webinar search spec
ts d so and this looks good so and
basically what we're now doing we we're
using a little bit of a trick here right
we're using playmc to perform all these
actions first right so what it now
should do it should now start navigating
to um
uh to the website so it uses player mcp
so here we are And it now tries to
perform all the actions that we just
defined, right? And because we use
playright MCP, guess what? It will now
move forward. It will do all these
things. But all the information that is
required to generate a playright test
case is included here in context. The
playright MCP calls will include all the
DOM structures, all the things that we
need to do or all the information that
is required to generate a playright test
case um to then create it. And you see
that it already um performed all the
actions and has now all the information
to move forward and generate a playright
test for us. So let's see here we
already have the webinar uh folder that
was just created and here we have a new
webinar spec or search specs. If you
wonder why I instructed it to include
these comments here on top, it's the
same thing, right? If you're going LLMs
and go all in with this um you will see
that this will maybe so it's my
experience
um you will see that um this information
will just give your LLM a little bit of
a guidance um to see what we're doing
what is after which then helps to avoid
um hallucination or the LLM going off
track. Marcos is asking if we can
instruct the LLM to create pumps. Uh
wait for it. Um so let's see how our um
how our test case goes. So I will just
briefly glance and look at it. So this
uses recommended locators. So on the
first look this looks like an okayish
playright test without looking into the
details. But let's see what happens if
we run it.
So we have here a test failure and if
you're not on the latest playright um
versions um so playright has um support
for prompts these days. So when we now
run npx player test we run here in the
into the same failure right but if we
now look at the report so where's my
report
show report command
here we have our thing so if you haven't
discovered this so if you have if you're
on a recent playright version you can
always go here and you can copy a prompt
so let's have a look at what is included
here so let me get rid of this so when
you copy this from your from your player
test results so it will just improve
include a little bit of context and
prompt magic for you.
So in this case we have some
instructions, we have some test info, we
have error details and then again here
we have the page snapshot and the code
that was actually running. So you could
now take this and we could paste this
into our agent or we can paste that into
JGPT to kind of get an idea of what is
wrong. But I um don't see myself doing
that very often actually. So let me show
you the approaches that I usually do in
these cases and I haven't even checked
the error yet. Right? So let's have a
look. So I will open uh my sidebar again
and here we have my webinar search spec.
And if you're using the VS code
extension for playright, there's this
new little button here that lets us fix
test failure. So let's see what this now
does. So this now has the context of the
previously run um playright uh test and
it now tries to fix it, right? So we can
now go here and it did some changes. I
didn't even recognize what was going on.
It was a strict mode violation, right?
So an allocator was matching multiple
elements. So let's see if this now
works. Here we go.
And we see that
we have another error. No, where's the
error? Let me just play that again
because and make that a little bit
smaller. So here we go. So here we have
another error. So we could now hit the
same button. Let's do that again. And
when I did this for the first time, it
felt a little bit strange, right?
Because I expected the LLM to um just
have all the answers immediately, right?
I definitely don't like that. But I will
roll with this right now. But when you
consider how you or how I write my
player test, I'm also just stumbling my
way forward, right? So this kind of
feels a little bit like a human would do
it. Um, I'm not saying saying that the
result here is the best way, but the
assumption that the LLM will just figure
it out magically is just wrong. So, we
now even have to hit the button a third
time, maybe. Let's see where we go.
Come on, you can do it. You can do it.
Um, but the key part here is that the
LLM will try to fix it and eventually I
hope we will manage. it is not managing
but let's try another approach then what
we also can do is and what I actually um
prefer to do um I prefer to do um it
with uh the agent settings so GitHub
copilot in this case so let me just
close this and let's kick off an agent
loop so what we now can do is we can um
tell it hey can you run the generated
playright test
if it fails
Please fix it.
So what we now can kick off here is this
will now run playright hopefully. Right.
So let's see.
Here we go. And now it will loop through
this test case until it passes. So this
is this very common um agendic workflow,
right? This is where this LLM now. Oh,
here's Sarah. Okay, I got it. What what
should we do?
And ideally, it will now figure out a
way to make it pass, which doesn't mean
that it will be the best way to make it
pass, right? So everything that is
happening here right now, you have to
take it with a grain of salt and you
still have to review all these kind of
things, all the output from the LLM um
to figure out to approve that is
actually what you're trying to test,
right? Especially when we talk about QA
or the monitoring um approach, it's very
important. So nobody wants to have green
tests that are not testing the thing
that we're after, right? So that is kind
of a very important piece here. But it
might look like we actually have to
debug here. So let's see
expect locator. If that doesn't work, I
will just comment this one line out.
Let's see.
You can do it. Come on.
So again, I now won't inspect if this is
really supposed is really doing what
it's supposed to do because you have to
review all the source code itself. But
the fact alone that I can tell
playright, hey, I have a failing test
case. Can you please fix it? Is uh
actually pretty nice, right? So that is
pretty cool.
Yeah. So with that, let me just double
check if this is doing what it's
supposed to do. Um because sometimes I'm
not trusting what we see here. So that
looks good. And when we now go back to
our U CLI section here, we should see
that it goes to the search and at least
it covered the three pages, right? And
you don't want to see me debugging and
checking the reviewing the code here um
constantly.
But the cool thing now is that we are
using LLMs and agents is that we can
start having a conversation with our
player codebase, right? Everybody talks
about code generation, but there are a
lot of things that can be very very
handy to do by using an LM, right? So
for now, for example,
uh clear the context again and we say,
hey, can you bring in test steps? Please
use playright's test step method in uh
search specs.
So let me just format that correctly. So
there are a lot of tasks that we humans
kind of burn time on. So it is method in
search. Oh, I want to reference that
search
spects
that we just can hand off to an LLM,
right? This is where LLM shine. Ranging
text, bringing something in and
transforming it to something else. And I
find myself using LLMs for these kind of
use cases more and more and more where
I'm like, "Oh, why am I doing this? Why
I'm spending 10 minutes reformatting,
maybe restructuring when an LLM can do
the job just fine." So in this case, now
we brought in test steps. If you haven't
used test steps, test steps allow you to
group all the playright actions that
will be included in your player test
results and um so that you have a nicer
and cleaner output. So how long did that
take us now? 10 seconds. And I hope
we're still green here.
And we are. So all these tasks where
you're we're burning money, burning
time. This is where really uh LLMs and
Playright kind of shine. And I think
this is pretty pretty cool. What else do
we have? I feel like we could now. Does
that look good?
Yeah.
Without checking if it's testing what
it's supposed to do. I think this is
okayish. Okayish. Um player test code,
right? So whenever you're extracting
variables on mass or you want to um get
out hard coders values. So that would be
something that I probably extract here
somehow or somewhere this is where you
can really go with um with LLMs to speed
up your workflow. But there was already
a question from Marcus um if we could
use the LLM to create pumps right so
page object models. So for the people
that don't use pumps or haven't heard of
pumps, so page object models are a way
to abstract away all this logic of
clicking of checking into
uh into classes. So JavaScript classes
to then kind of abstract that away so
that tests become more readable, right?
So we see here that this would be like
playright def page get started page
object model. So we abstract it's just a
matter of abstraction here, right? And
now wrangling this piece here or this
code here into page object models which
would be basically three page object
models right would take me a little bit
but we could also
hand this task over to our friend
copilot here right so we could now say
hey please use player mcp to run the
test scenario defined in
tests/webinar/archspectts
please refactor the existing test to use
proper page object models located in
tests test /einar/poms.
Don't change the existing functionality
and don't create new tests.
So let's see um we can reference the
file here. So let's go with search spec.
Yes, that looks good. And we want to
have it here in test webinar pumps. So
let's see if I'm not messing up. So
tests webinar. We want to have here
pumps directory. And now really I can
take a sip of my my little drink here
and we can see if that works.
So it will now create the page object
models directory, right?
It figured that one out. So that is
pretty pretty cool.
You can do it
and it's structuring a plan. So um I
don't think we can exit that here but it
will now um rely on the information
again to figure out what should be a
page um in the first place. So I found
that to be a little bit helpful to just
make it give it a little bit more
context while it was splitting up the
playright test to have something to work
off. Right. So we're performing here now
the um player test case to fill it with
the context again. after we covered
different pages so that the LLM
understands okay there's a homepage all
right there's a search page and there's
a PDP a product detail page and now it
will go on and we'll start kind of
wrangling all this context that is now
included in this conversation to create
our page object models so let's see how
it goes with there so we have now our
pumps directory first step done let's
see what what will be next sometimes it
now creates a base class and sometimes
it doesn't so let's see which path it
takes takes.
So, we have here our homepage,
and this looks like a palm. [laughter]
Let's see where we go here. All right.
Um, when you're using uh VS Code or
cursor, um, Copilot will also figure
out, um, or will also notice these type
errors if they are there or linting
errors. So, that's something just to
keep in mind. And now it's making its
way forward to create a search page,
right? And I'm just trusting it right
now that it's reusing the information
that we have here in search uh specs.
Right? And then we will have the product
page.
And honestly, when I did that for the
first time, I was like, man, that would
have taken me a while to extract all
that stuff. But this will now take us if
it succeeds now for in a minute or
something. And this is actually useful
and I hope Marcus you agree with me that
this is actually useful. Uh so let's see
because this allows us for example we
could now go ahead and record our stuff
with codegen right because codegen is
super quick. You just click click click
click click click and you have your play
rate code in seconds, right? But you
cannot record or code generate from play
code gen with page object models. But
you can then feed it back into the LLM
to follow your project patterns to bring
this code into a um shape that you're
after. Right? So let's see. So we're
already at search spects. We're already
importing our page object models.
And this looks actually pretty good,
right? So let let's see. So whenever now
the LLM is doing something that you
don't like it to do, right? This is a
moment where you would that works on
first try. Isn't that cool? Uh so you
would enrich or change the context with
maybe a GitHub copilot instruction file,
maybe with a cloud MD file. So whenever
it's doing something that it is not
supposed to do, right, you have to feed
that into the context. Right now I have
here a GitHub instruction copilot
instruction file that doesn't include
much. But if there's something again
that you don't want it to do, bring it
in. And usually some sometimes you have
to be a little bit explicit to not do
something. But yeah, overall I think
this worked fairly well. So let's see
what we have now. So let me remove this.
So we now imported the homepage uh page
object model, product page, search page.
We still have here the instructions that
I have from our initial um thing. And
here we use our page object models which
I think is pretty pretty cool. The test
case is still passing. So we generated
now some code, re-rangled it, we
refactored it. And overall I think this
is very very cool. When we not check out
the pom models, what I tend to use with
AI is also doing something like this. So
let me just clear the conversation.
Hey, can you check the page object
models in the pumps directory and tell
me if it's using best practices?
So I'm now going in here. I'm again
referencing the directory and I'm
bringing again in context 7 to also
check for the playright docs to see if
we're following um the best practices
here. So it will now read all the files
and it might change some things. Maybe
it will give us some recommendations.
And this is where I think that LM
incredibly helpful. Um, for example, if
you open pull requests on GitHub, GitHub
Copilot always finds something that I
could improve, maybe a typo, some better
talk, uh, some better comments or a
condition that I missed. So, this is
what LLMs are pretty pretty great at.
Um, Marcus, when I use the clear
command, so Marcus asked what happens
when I call clear in the in in my little
chat window here. When I call clear, it
will clear the entire conversation
because I'm trying to keep the context
window or the context very very lean
because the more context you're dealing
with, the more likely in my experience
is that the LLM will go off rail, right?
And we'll start doing things because it
gets confused. So whenever I'm doing
something that is a different topic or a
different task or something I'm really
trying to clear and if I need something
constantly right I'm writing files to
disk like the setup MD or test plan or
something just to keep the conversation
focused.
So here we have some recommendations of
what we can do but I would won't look at
this right now because I still have a
little bit uh of things to share here
right now. So let's clear um a final
time and let's see what is going on. So
the last thing is that when we check
here um our application there's also
this um this route here which is
available at API/ products right and if
a lot of people use player for testing
but it's pretty great at API testing too
and if we look at this response here
right this is a lot of data this takes
me a while to figure out what properties
should I test what is coming back what
are the edge cases but now check this
out uh what we can do is we could also
log go in and we could say something
like, "Hey, there's an API route to
fetch products. Can you create one
player test in tests/webinar/appi
specs to validate the get call too?
Please read the source code, run the
test, and verify the result
automatically. Fix it if needed.
And what I'm going to do is now I will
bring in the setup MD file here. Right?
So let's see webinars test webinars
API
specs
fix if needed. All right. And this is
now where the beauty comes in. We now
provided with the setd file that we
initially had. Um we will bring that in
so that um the LLM right now doesn't
need to poke around and find where is
this product's call because it's
included in the context already. The
setup file here defines that we have
here a products call, right? Fetches all
products from Shopify. And we'll most
likely figure out that this is what
we're dealing with. And now it's heading
into the directory. We have here the
directory uh products and the route tsx.
And this uses um get uh products. And
you see that is already getting down
this rabbit hole because we gave it some
pointers without kind of poking around
and kind of um figuring out what we're
dealing with. So now we'll uh analyze
the source code that is uh responsible
for the response of this API endpoint
and it will create hopefully a new API
spec. Right? So here we have our new API
spec. Let's see if that works uh in a
little bit.
All right. Um, so there are some
questions about MCP servers. Yeah, I
have context 7 in my GitHub copilot
session as MCP server and you can
install that very very quickly.
So, and because we now instructed the um
the LLM to
um test and figure out the thing itself,
you see that we're here entering again a
loop, right? It's going forward. It sees
all right we had a failing test case
here in the middle but looks like we now
already entered the stage that it
created an API test for this API
endpoint and it let's see what it
verifies proper status code uh JSON
content type header it checks the
response status so let's see what we got
so let me just make that all a little
bit bigger here we go so we go for
proper 200 status code we check for JSON
and now look at this I mean just copy
and pasty and copying this over from the
code or from the JSON response. That
takes a minute, right? And it's also not
[laughter] honestly not a nice task to
do when we kind of pair the original
source code with the um things that we
want to create. Honestly, sometimes
there is a little bit of magic that can
happen. So, what we now have here is
when we check this, I'm not going into
the details. Again, check the results.
Don't rely on the LLM and just trust
that it's testing what it's supposed to
test. Very often, I also found that LM
generated test code tries to please you,
right? If you tell it, hey, please make
it pass. Sometimes there's also totally
silly stuff in there just to make a test
pass for commenting things out. So,
please verify that the things that are
in here, I don't think this is the best
way to do it. But for certain things, it
just gives you a head start.
All right. But when we now go into our
terminal here back again, let's just
check if this is doing what it's
supposed to do. So this looks good. So
we now had
three test cases. Let's check the report
if this is actually included everything
that I'm expecting. So we have here now
our API spec that includes products
should return products data. So this
looks good. And here we have our um
search and navigation. We have here our
trace file. So generally this is pretty
good for just having a conversation with
the LLM. So let's assume that this
source code is now all good to go. What
would you do now? So once you have
developed your playright and end test,
you will usually run them in CI/CD
and push them to the cloud to run them
on GitHub actions, right? So what we
allow you at Czechley is to take your
playright tests and just run them
without um doing anything much at all.
So let me just quickly check something.
Yeah, that looks good. So what I now can
do is I can take my existing player test
suite and I can run npx checkly test and
I want to just run the tests that we
just created. I will explain how this
all works in a second. And we now can
kick this off and this will now run
these player tests that we just created
with AI in a the Czechly infrastructure.
And we will can have a look at that in a
moment. And everything is running in EU
central one. So how does that work? So
when we go here back to our project. So
first of all I can go to my playright
config play
config. And here you see first of all
that I'm using the base URL setup. And
when there's a base URL um it will use
the base URL otherwise it will go to
local host. So this is very common also
for CI/CD flows right you give it a
preview URL and then player tests use
these. So I'm doing that there. And then
I have two two different projects here.
So I have my backup project which was
already running. And then we have here
the webinar project which is all the
stuff that is in the directory webinar.
And then this project is already so
let's make that a little smaller. A
check project. A check project pretty
much just needs the check dependency.
And here we have the Czechly config
sitting in this repository. So this is
all your monitoring configuration if you
want to use or reuse your play rate
stuff for monitoring. And here we have a
little property that is called play rate
checks. And this is what we just have
run. So we have to give it an ID a name
and then we have to specify what
playright projects we want to run in
this setting. Right? So we have here the
webinar project again which we defined
here and then we define the locations we
want to run this from and how often it
should run. When we now back go back to
the terminal, this is we didn't
transform it to monitoring yet. Right
now we just tested it out. So when we
look here at the result, this is the
code that we just created using AI
running in the Czechly cloud. And we see
here now all the things that just
happened, right? Should return response
data. And we have here the results. We
have trace files which are not very
helpful for API calls. But if we have
here our um playright browser check,
here we have the trace file. This is all
the code that was just bundled and
executed in the Czechly infrastructure.
So if you want to use this in uh fairly
easy configurable things in your CIC CD
pipeline, you can totally do that too.
But now let's check this out. Now that I
have a passing um test, right, I used
npx checkly test. I can also go here and
I can say npx checkly deploy, right? And
we can now take this source code that we
just created, this webinar code. Um,
this will now deploy everything, also my
backup code. And we can deploy it. And
we just enabled synthetic monitoring
with playright running every 10 minutes
from three locations. So check this out.
This is now the stuff that we just This
didn't look correct. I think I didn't
clean up properly. So it was probably my
my Well, that is from my earlier dry
run. But this is the code that is now
available here. And you see that it's
running from multiple locations. And we
have all the information for this
monitoring setup now. So when something
goes off and you want to reuse certain
player tests for monitoring, you can
totally do that. And you have all the
information right in front of you.
Um I messed something up on the way, but
you get the idea. And because we are
here in the webinar, so let me just last
step because we're talking about AI. If
your playright tests fail in Czechley,
check this out. So I tested that
earlier. You can always go in here and
when there's something failing, we
analyze the trace file and all the
information that we have for you when
you debug a failure or when you want to
see what's going on and we provide it to
you in the check UI. So you see here
that we try to evaluate the user uh
impact uh the t steps that has been
taken the possible root cause. So, it's
pretty much close to what you can get
when you use the copy prompt feature and
put it into CHPT, right? We tweaked that
a little bit, try to make it a little
bit better, but you get this information
right in the check UI when you run your
playright tests from within
there. Excuse me. And with that, I think
I made it through my to-do list. So,
let's go back here. And I see there's
still one u pending question. So what I
showed you in the last 50 minutes, I
know it was a lot and I was probably
fairly quick, but we generated fixed and
refactored playright code by just having
a conversation, right? I didn't change
or didn't touch any code manually. And I
think this is honestly pretty cool.
And this is the point, right? LLMs can
feel magical when you use them, right?
But really, I really cannot stress that
enough. Testing and monitoring is very
important. Don't forget to look behind
the curtain. Check if your tests are
doing what they're supposed to do. Don't
commit. Don't uh go with tests that AI
generated without looking at them. AI
might have generated and created the
code, but you will still be the
responsible person. Then context is
everything, right? Use context 7, use
player MCP, generate context files for
later use. Um, so I showed you how to
use the setup MD, how it test plan.
Currently, there are discussions if
there should be a unified standard
called agents MD. cloud uses cloud MD.
Um, these kind of things matter. Provide
the context, be explicit, and then see
and check the output. And overall, I was
very much a strong AI skeptic when I
play started playing around with these
kind of things. But AI will help you get
more things done. When you kind of
figure out what AI is good at, you can
save a lot of time, honestly. And that
is pretty pretty sweet. But I want to
close this here with with a question.
But I'm still dancing around this like
does every task now need to be AI
assistant or assisted or do we need to
use a do we need to use AI for
everything? And I don't think we do,
right? Sometimes codegen is still great,
but for example, wrangling some source
code to create page object models of it.
That is a perfect LLM use case. So it's
up to you to figure out and I won't
answer that question for you because I
don't know, right? We will all figure
that out and we will see where this
whole AI and LLM journey will bring us.
If you want to play around with what I
just showed you on the Czechly side, so
we have a playright test suites. They're
currently in beta. Here are the docs. Um
will also go out via email uh hopefully
tomorrow. And if you enjoyed me rambling
around uh playright codes um I publish
also YouTube videos which you find on
the Czechley YouTube channel which is at
czechleyhq.com.
So we now have 7 minutes left. I see
there's one pending question from
Dimitri which is does player MCP server
produce tests only in vanilla player
syntax or is there a way to instruct it
with custom fixtures page object uh
design? So the player at MCP server um
doesn't generate any test code like at
all. So let me show you that again here.
So when we now clear this conversation
and we clear and we say can you navigate
to checkhq.com.
What this pretty much does is the lm now
figures out that it wants to use
playrate mcp. It will now call the
playright mcp server. So this here is
the play rate MCP server call and this
is first of all controlling playright
but playrate MCP here has um two
responsibilities. It will control chrome
that is maybe obvious but then it will
bring back or return all this
information. It will tell us what it
executed what console messages were
there and the current state. So in most
of the cases you will use player MCP
either for scraping scenarios where you
want hey I want to login in do that do
that and just don't worry about the
implementation or for our case the test
generation really only works because we
have this included in the conversation.
When I showed you the test generation
earlier what I prompted was hey uh
player MCP please do that do that do
that do that. So I basically did a
scraping scenario but at the end I then
told the LLM conversation to take all
this information all the page snapshots
all the code that is available and
generate a code out of that. So and I
hope so this is how player MCP works and
this is how you can use it to generate
um your player tests right and I hope
that answers your question Dimmetry. So,
we now have 5 minutes left. Um, if there
are any more questions, um, I'm happy to
take them.
I'm counting up to 10 and take a sip of
my
uh, uh, glass here.
Going once,
going twice.
All right. Well then, I am very happy
that you joined me here on this little
little live coding session. I hope you
had a good time. I most certainly did.
You will receive an email u with all the
prompts. Um I cannot promise that I will
share the project later on because I
don't think there um is much need for it
and it's also a little bit dirty in the
implementation. So [laughter]
don't tell anyone but I will share all
the prompts. I will share all the
resources and yeah we see each other um
on the other side and I will see you
very very soon um on the internet and I
hope you had a good